For those who still have
family members being held hostage
by Hamas,
the stakes could not be any higher.
And just few minutes ago,
I sat down with five of those families,
five American families with an exclusive,
exclusive interview.
They were gathered in D.C.
to push lawmakers here
and the White House
to do everything
they can
to try to help bring back these Americans
to their homes.
One of the first things
I just want to say is because you are
Americans is
we were
honoring Rosalynn Carter yesterday
and we were talking
about the hostage crisis
because of Jimmy Carter.
And that was the hostage crisis
that we had
where Americans were taking hostage.
And we have another hostage
crisis right now.
And we have Americans in this country
who are actually rooting
for the hostage takers. And
it's
absolutely mind blowing to me.
And as people who have loved ones
who have been taken hostage,
I can't imagine what it's like for you.
And I'm just wondering
what you think
and what you feel when you see people.
I'm not talking about people
marching for Palestinian rights.
That's a separate issue.
But specifically marching
in support of Hamas,
as we know,
those are two different issues.
What is that like?
This shouldn't be a political issue.
This is a strictly humanitarian issue.
You have 240 abducted right now, 160.
This should be,
you know, any person just looking at
this issue should should sympathize.
Think about it.
Could have been your son.
It could have been your daughter,
your mother.
People taken from their beds,
people taken from their houses.
It's it's not the same.
I think it's a lack of education,
whatever it's going on protest wise.
And
to see the Hamas as a freedom
fighter, it's it's fundamentally wrong.
That's what I think.
It's not a Islam issue.
Islam,
if you talk to Kareem Abdul-Jabbar,
I'm sure he will tell you
Islam is not about raping women,
beheading kids, burning people alive.
So I think people
should understand the facts.
To me, it's just sad and scary, really,
that people
choose to take side or not even look at
what the issue really is
or see our children, our wives,
fathers, you know, as people
for what they are.
They don't even bother
looking at the story.
They just make a judgment
based on lack of facts
and lack of education.
It's just scary to me.
And fortunately,
we've moved to a place
where people want a simple,
evil and good,
and then they make their decision
based upon that.
It's a complicated issue,
and yeah,
you need to spend time to understand it
before formulating an opinion.
Another round of hostages
are going to be released today.
And we're family.
We're told
the families have been notified
and sadly, none of you were notified.
Another another day gone by.
And no, no word of your loved ones.
And I'm just wondering,
I know you're happy
for those who have had loved
ones released.
And but for those of you
who are waiting for word of Omer,
it's really tough.
It's really tough.
I mean,
we're happy to see anyone being released.
But for me personally,
O'Mara is is a man.
He's my son, 22 years old.
He's not in the conversation yet.
And it's it's really bad.
Maybe, Jake, a way to visualize.
Yeah, No time.
Tick tock. Tick tock.
What is that?
Why is there no time?
What what do you
what does that symbolize to you?
Symbolizes after 54 days.
We have no idea on the physical condition
as well. A sign of life.
This is against any international law,
even in times of conflict.
The people walking this planet,
that is basic principles
that are agreed upon.
And in this case, the Hamas
terrorist organization has decided
not to abide by those principles.
We have the International Red
Cross, Doctors Without Borders wanting to
go in and are not allowed in.
Question is why
you guys met with the Red Cross.
What did you have to say to them?
First thing we said was
we want to have signs of life.
We also want to know if
people who are in Gaza
who were hostages
are healthy, what their condition is.
They are the first people that see
these hostages.
We have hostages who are coming back
emaciated.
They've lost lots of weight.
They're dirty.
They have no light in them.
They've been in the dark in so many ways.
They're not healthy.
Yeah.
And the Red Cross is
their responsibility is to transfer them.
But their responsibility also
is to be the voice
and to tell us what is happening.
So while we understand
their fragile position
where they need to be on the ground
and we want them there and they do
good work,
we also want them to advocate
for the folks that are still in Gaza.
So on my show yesterday, we talked about
accounts that we have heard
from loved
ones of hostages who have been released,
a little boy
kept in solitary confinement.
We saw a little girl,
that little Irish Israeli girl.
Clearly,
the light has gone out in her eyes,
talked about being kept in the box.
She thought she was
kept away from her family for a year.
She thought it had been a year.
Another child
shown videos from October 7th.
These are just a handful of accounts.
This is how the kids were
kept.
Also heard about
women being kept in cages.
It's it's just it's awful.
On one hand, it's sick, devastating.
You know, I think the it's depraved.
I mean, it's
it's barbaric,
inhumane, inhumane, inhuman.
Yeah,
I used the word holocaust.
I know I come from
and my family is a Holocaust survivor.
You know,
we feel like it's all over
the Holocaust again, happening to us.
the Israeli military is assessing claims
made by Hamas
that the youngest hostage,
ten month old care givers and his mom
were killed.
Hamas is claiming
that they were killed
by an Israeli air strike.
Obviously, whoever kidnaps
a baby and a mom, they're responsible
for what happens to them
regardless of how they were killed.
I'm wondering
if any of you want to
comment on this awful news.
Again, we don't know if it's even true.
Right.
I think the family came out
with a statement
saying that they are looking at the facts
and hoping for good news.
But that's part
of the psychological warfare
that Hamas is doing.
And going back to Liz's comment
about the International Red Cross.
They need to be the witness.
They are the conscience
of the international community
and need to speak up
and be vocal about what they are saying
and calling them out
for these types of acts
that they are doing.
The whole world needs to speak up.
We don't feel that the
international community is appalled
the way they should be.
It's humanitarian crisis
at the highest level and there don't seem
to be enough outrage out there.
Now, over 30 different nationalities
being held hostage today.
And I think,
you know, we've seen the success
with the release
of some hostages
over the past several days.
And the US government, Israel, Egypt,
Qatar are working together
and I'm really grateful for that.
That's how
my aunt Aviva,
how Abigail have been released.
But there's so many other hostages
who have not yet been released
and time is of the essence.
Do any of you think that
President Biden is not doing enough,
that he needs to be doing more?
It's okay if you feel that way.
If I had a
loved one in captivity,
I probably would think that
nobody's doing enough.
We have heard
President Biden expressing
the hostages is top priority,
but we're still sitting here
54 days later
with eight of us, eight families
still waiting for their loved ones.
Think Biden administration, they do
more than enough since the first day.
But the math shouldn't fool us,
which means
if every day ten people being released,
it doesn't mean necessarily
that the two weeks from now
their remaining 140
something hostages will be out.
So that's the main concern.
You talked about
how you don't think that you're
getting enough support from the world.
And I'm sure you know
that one of the reasons that is
and there are probably many reasons,
but one of the reasons
that is, is because
many people in the world
think that the IDF's response
has killed too many
innocent Palestinians.
The IDF says
they're going
after Hamas and Hamas embeds
with the population
and they're not trying to kill civilians.
But Hamas goes where the population is.
That's the reason.
Do you think that the IDF
should be focusing more,
not just the IDF, that Netanyahu
should be focusing
more on the hostages, getting them out,
saving them,
and the time for going after Hamas
should come later
at the beginning of the conflict.
I think the Israeli government
was more focused on going after Hamas.
I think the fact that the families
have come together,
we each feel collectively
that we have 240 new family members.
And I think the success of the families
being together and being able to unite
around the hostage issue and getting the
people of
Israel behind us
has changed the perception
of the government of Israel.
The hostages have been 54 days.
Somewhere in the dark in Gaza,
it is
an immediate need,
the immediacy
of getting these hostages out.
A young man like Hirsch,
who had his arm blown off,
he doesn't have days to wait.
And so
little people,
big people, mothers, brothers,
young women
who we know are not being treated
well in Gaza.
They need to get out.
And so when we talk about it,
none of us are talking about
this politically.
We're talking about it as a human crisis.
And so for me,
the issue of how do we finish
with the work of Hamas
and getting rid of them,
let's put it aside for a second
and let's just focus on
getting these 150 folks,
people, our family, our relatives out
and getting them safe.
That should be everyone's priority
right now.
All I can say is
I hope that your loved ones
get home soon.
And I know for the ones of you that have
men being held hostage
who are not top priority
because women and children
and older people are being
prioritized, and people in the IDF,
they will be last on the list.
And I'm so sorry for that.
It's time to change this equation.
Right? Who said that?
You know, we where is it coming from?
We believe collectively
that anybody from any group
should be released.
Should be a mixed group from now on.
Yes.
We 100% agree that children being
the sensitive souls that they are,
should have been released first.
But from now on, they should be
a consideration of men and women.
Old and young
soldiers and civilians
still should come out.
They're all the same.
There should be representation
of each and every group coming out.
What do you want anybody watching
right now to know about your loved one?
What should
somebody who's watched this
and is sitting at home afterwards?
What should they know about him?
He don is American kid.
He graduated last year
from Tenafly High School.
He love parties.
He's got tons of friends.
He's a professional swimmer.
He loved the good Life is a real foodie.
Like he knows all the restaurants.
Like we've been in concert everywhere.
Like
he doesn't belong there.
Like dance with a family.
As simple as that.
Yeah. Tell us about that.
What do you want
people to know about Homer Omar
As a kind person?
But when it comes to the room,
he just captured everybody's attention
just because of his
sheer size and kindness.
And. And
he loves
playing basketball and admires
the NBA and the NFL.
Just the American kid.
He belongs at home.
What about Ed?
What do you want us to know about other?
He's a very talented kid.
He sings. He dances.
So he's typically the life of the party.
He has been in the Boy Scouts
until the age of 18.
So he mentors young kids.
And maybe the most important part of his,
he and his older brother play NBA, too.
Okay, so
I get my ass whipped by my eldest son,
so he needs his youngest
younger brother to come back
so he could go back and play with them.
NBA, too.
Emily, tell us about your Uncle Keith.
What do you want us to know about him?
My Uncle Keith is a really gentle,
kind father and grandfather.
He grew up in North Carolina.
That's where I'm from.
And family is just everything to him.
And he needs to be returned
to be with his grandchildren
and his wife and his children.
I want them all home. So.
Thank you for talking to us.